Abstract
This research examines the performance of a new kind of Schnapsen bot, called
“Cockybot”. It aims to explain how Cockybot’s performance compares against
Bullybot’s and Rdeepbot’s.
Cockybot has its name because it plays conservatively until it reaches 40 points and
holds 2 trump cards. This means that it will try to avoid playing trump cards and high
scoring cards, instead playing face cards and (high-scoring) non-trump cards as
much as possible. It will follow this conservative strategy regardless of if it is leading
the trick or not. However, a trump card or high scoring card will be played when it is
certain that it will lead to winning the trick, which might occur when Cockybot is not
the leader. As an example, when the leader plays a non-trump 10, Cockybot will play
a trump card if it does not have a non-trump ace to beat that score, because it is
obvious that it will lead to winning the trick. Besides this, Cockybot will make
marriages and trump exchanges when they are possible. When 40 points and 2
trump cards have been reached and the deck hasn’t been closed yet, Cockybot will
start becoming cocky and close the deck. Then, it will aggressively lead with its
highest scoring trump cards and its highest scoring non-trump cards once the trump
cards have been exhausted. It will also immediately declare a marriage if it’s
possible. When Cockybot is not leading the closed deck phase, it will instead stay
conservative and play the lowest scoring card whenever its move is not forced by the
Farbzwang (follow suit) and Stichzwang (win if possible) rules.
The way that the comparison will be done is as follows. Each of the three bots will
play 1000 matches against Randombot, where the amount of wins and losses is
recorded. The seeds are also all recorded. Then, through slightly adjusting certain
variables, its effects on the wins and losses is observed, which will help with
discovering why Cockybot performs better or worse than Rdeepbot and Bullybot.
The first variable that is adjusted is the amount of points at which Cockybot closes
the deck and becomes cocky. The second variable that could be changed is the
quality of the 2 trump cards. What that means is that instead of saying it should close
the deck when it has any 2 trump cards, it can be changed to 2 trump cards where at
least one is an ace or a ten. Since declaring a marriage immediately in the second
phase is bold because it risks losing the lead, it could also be said that the marriage
should be a lower priority and Cockybot should always prioritize exhausting the
opponents’ trumps instead, to see the effects on the wins and losses. Ultimately, the
changes will mostly depend on the results. For example, If one seed has Cockybot
winning an abnormal amount of times, we could adjust the part of Cockybot that
might cause that high win rate, and so we can figure out why it is performing the way
it is and why that gives it an advantage over the other bots.